Captioning sponsored by
MacNEIL/LEHRER PRODUCTIONS
>> Woodruff: FRESH SMOKE, MORE
EXPLOSIONS, AND WORD THREE
FLOORS HAVE COLLAPSED AT THE
SHOPPING MALL IN KENYA, AMID
CONFLICTING REPORTS THE STANDOFF
WITH TERRORISTS IS NEARING AN
END.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
AND IN NEW YORK TODAY, PRESIDENT
OBAMA ADDRESSED THE U.N. GENERAL
ASSEMBLY, REACHING OUT TO IRAN'S
NEW LEADER AND DEMANDING THAT
THE U.N. ACT AGAINST SYRIA'S
CURRENT LEADER.
>> IF WE CANNOT AGREE EVEN ON
THIS, THEN IT WILL SHOW THAT THE
UNITED NATIONS IS INCAPABLE OF
ENFORCING THE MOST BASIC OF
INTERNATIONAL LAWS.
>> Woodruff: AND RAY SUAREZ
TALKS TO THE AUTHOR OF A BOOK
THAT SHEDS NEW LIGHT ON THE LIFE
OF JESUS OF NAZARETH.
>> TO TRY TO GET TO THE MAN
HIMSELF WAS IF FOR NO OTHER
REASON JUST TO KNOW HIM BETTER.
>> Ifill: THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: OUR LEAD STORY
TONIGHT, THE PRESIDENT OF KENYA
PROCLAIMED VICTORY IN THE BLOODY
SIEGE OF A SHOPPING MALL IN
NAIROBI.
HE PUT THE DEATH TOLL AT 72, BUT
THE ISLAMIST ATTACKERS DISPUTED
HIS ACCOUNT.
>> AT THE TALE END OF THE
OPERATION, THREE FLOORS OF THE
WEST GATE MALL COLLAPSED AND
THERE ARE SEVERAL BODIES STILL
TRAPPED IN THE RUBBLE, INCLUDING
THE TERRORISTS.
>> Woodruff: HIS ADDRESS
FOLLOWED ANOTHER DAY OF
CONFLICTING REPORTS OF THE
STATUS OF THE STANDOFF AND OF
THE REMAINING HOSTAGES, IF ANY.
EARLIER, THE SOMALI GROUP
AL-SHABAAB-- LINKED TO AL
QAEDA-- HAD RELEASED A PHOTO OF
TWO FIGHTERS IT SAID WERE STILL
INSIDE THE MALL.
AT THE TIME, THE GROUP INSISTED
THE ATTACKERS STILL HELD
HOSTAGES.
ALSO EARLIER, GUNSHOTS COULD BE
HEARD AT THE MALCOLM FLEX AS
SOLDIERS CIRCLED OUTSIDE.
AND SMOKE AGAIN BILLOWED FROM
THE BUILDING.
A SMART TIME AGO I SPOKE TO
REPORTER NICHOLAS KULISH IN
NAIROBI, HE'S BEEN COVERING THE
STORY FOR THE "NEW YORK TIMES."
NICHOLAS KULISH, WELCOME TO THE
PROGRAM.
SO TELL US WHERE THINGS STAND
RIGHT NOW.
IS THIS OPERATION COMPLETELY
OVER OR SUSPECT IT?
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, THEY'VE SAID
THAT IT'S OVER AND YET ON MY WAY
HERE I WAS TOLD -- I HIT A
ROADBLOCK AND A SOLDIER WAS TOLD
THAT FOR M
TO GO THE LONG WAY AROUND.
THERE'S STILL -- THEY'RE STILL
CLEARING, THEY'RE STILL
SEARCHING.
THIS IS AN ENORMOUS MALL WITH
MORE THAN 80 STORES IN IT AND
PROBABLY AN ALMOST UNLIMITED
NUMBER OF HIDING PLACES.
>> Woodruff: HOW DO YOU EXPLAIN
THE FACT THAT THE PRESIDENT HAS
NOW SAID SEVERAL TIMES THAT THEY
WERE FINISHED BUT THEN IT TURNS
OUT THAT THEY HAVEN'T.
WHAT HAS MADE THIS SO DIFFICULT?
>> WELL, I MEAN, I THINK IT'S
BEEN PARTICULARLY DIFFICULT
BECAUSE THE ASSAILANTS INSIDE
THE MALL WERE EXTREMELY WELL
ARMED.
THERE IS THE FEAR THAT IF THEY
WENT IN TOO HARD THEY WOULD KILL
POTENTIAL HOSTAGES AND SO, I
MEAN, I THINK THAT MIX OF
CAUTION AND EXTREME PREPAREDNESS
ON THE PART OF THE MILITANTS
MADE IT VERY, VERY DIFFICULT FOR
THE KENYANS TO OPERATE.
>> Woodruff: HOW MUCH IS KNOWN
RIGHT NOW, NICHOLAS KULISH,
ABOUT THE MILITANTS BEHIND THIS,
ABOUT HOW WELL ORGANIZED THEY
WERE?
WHO THEY WERE.
>> IT'S CLEAR THEY WERE
EXTREMELY WELL ORGANIZED, NO
QUESTION ABOUT THAT.
AND IT'S ALSO THERE'S NO
QUESTION THAT AL-SHABAAB, THE
SOMALI MILITANT GROUP, HAS TAKEN
RESPONSIBILITY FOR IT.
FROM THERE IT GETS A LITTLE MORE
COMPLICATED.
AL-SHABAAB HAS ALLIED ITSELF
WITH AL QAEDA AND THERE ARE
OTHER GROUPS THAT THEY'VE BEEN
WORKING IN COMBINATION WITH.
IT HAS BEEN SUGGESTED THAT
AMERICANS MIGHT HAVE BEEN
INVOLVED, BRITISH PEOPLE MIGHT
HAVE BEEN INVOLVED, FREEDOM THE
ARAB WORLD.
SO THERE'S A GREAT UNCERTAINTY
IN TERMS OF EXACTLY WHO PEOPLE
WERE WHO STAGED THIS ATTACK.
>> AND FINALLY TELL US ABOUT
WHAT PEOPLE IN NAIROBI ARE
SAYING.
IS THERE STILL A GREAT SENSE OF
FEAR?
HOW ARE PEOPLE SENSING ALL THIS?
HOW ARE THEY HANDLING IT?
>> WELL, I THINK THERE
DEFINITELY IS FEAR.
PEOPLE TALK ABOUT NOT WANTING TO
HANG AROUND IN THE FOOD COURTS
OF MALLS OR WHERE PEOPLE MIGHT
STRIKE NEXT.
I MEAN, THERE'S REAL
APPREHENSION THAT COMES FROM
THIS ATTACK.
ON THE OTHER HAND, I THINK IF
THE GOAL THE MILITANTS HAD WAS
TO SCARE KENYA AND TO DRIVE IT
OUT OF THE PARTS OF SOMALIA
WHERE IT HAS TROOPED STATIONS
THEN THEY'LL FAILED QUITE
SPECTACULARLY.
THERE'S INCREDIBLE FEELING OF
SOLIDARITY HERE, OF BINDING
TOGETHER AND A SENSE, I WOULD
SAY, A LOT OF PEOPLE WANTING TO
FIGHT EVEN MORE.
>> Woodruff: THANK YOU.
>> THANKS FOR HAVING ME.
>> Woodruff: IN OTHER NEWS,
WORLD LEADERS OPENED THEIR
ANNUAL GATHERING AT THE UNITED
NATIONS GENERAL ASSEMBLY TODAY,
WITH THE FOCUS HEAVILY ON SYRIA
AND IRAN.
PRESIDENT OBAMA CALLED FOR
"CONSEQUENCES" IF SYRIA BALKS AT
DISPOSING OF ITS CHEMICAL
WEAPONS.
HE ALSO WELCOMED POSSIBLE SIGNS
OF MODERATION BY IRAN'S NEW
PRESIDENT.
WE'LL HAVE MUCH MORE ON THIS
STORY, IN JUST A MOMENT.
THE LEADER OF BRAZIL ALSO
ADDRESSED THE U.N. GENERAL
ASSEMBLY AND REBUKED THE U.S.
FOR SPYING ON HER COUNTRY.
PRESIDENT DILMA ROUSSEFF HAD
ALREADY POSTPONED A STATE VISIT
TO WASHINGTON AFTER LEARNING THE
NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY
INTERCEPTED PHONE CALLS AND HER
OWN E-MAIL.
TODAY SHE SAID ESPIONAGE AMONG
FRIENDS IS "TOTALLY
UNACCEPTABLE."
>> ( translated ): MEDLING IN
SUCH A MANNER THE LIFE AND
AFFAIRS OF OTHER COUNTRIES HAVE
A BREACH OF INTERNATIONAL LAW
AND, AS SUCH, IT IS AN AFFRONT
TO THE PRINCIPLES THAT SHOULD
OTHERWISE GOVERN RELATIONS AMONG
COUNTRIES, ESPECIALLY AMONG
FRIENDLY NATIONS.
>> Woodruff: ROUSSEFF SAID
BRAZIL, WHICH IS AN IMPORTANT
HUB FOR TRANSATLANTIC FIBER
OPTIC CABLES, IS ADOPTING NEW
LAWS AND TECHNOLOGY TO PROTECT
AGAINST ILLEGAL INTERCEPTIONS OF
COMMUNICATIONS IN THE FUTURE.
FOR THE FIRST TIME, THE FORMER
POEN
DENIED RESPONSIBILITY IN
COVERING UP SEXUAL ABUSE BY
PRIESTS.
HE DID SO IN A LETTER TO A
PROMINENT ITALIAN ATHEIST.
EXCERPTS WERE PUBLISHED TODAY IN
THE NEWSPAPER "LA REPUBBLICA."
THE RETIRED PONTIFF WROTE:
"I NEVER TRIED TO COVER UP THESE
THINGS.
THAT THE POWER OF EVIL
PENETRATES TO SUCH A POINT IS,
FOR US, A SOURCE OF SUFFERING."
FOUR MEN IN CHICAGO WERE CHARGED
TODAY IN LAST WEEK'S SHOOTINGS
AT A PARK THAT WOUNDED 13
PEOPLE.
POLICE SUPERINTENDENT GARRY
McCARTHY SAID ONE OF THE TWO
ACCUSED SHOOTERS WAS CONVICTED
LAST YEAR OF ILLEGAL USE OF A
WEAPON, BUT HE WAS SENTENCED
ONLY TO BOOT CAMP.
>> THIS STATE NEEDS TOUGHER PENL
THESE HOLD DANGEROUS CRIMINALS
ACCOUNTABLE FOR CARRYING ILLEGAL
FIREARMS.
ILLEGAL GUNS DRIVE VIOLENCE.
ILLEG GUNALS DRIVE MURDER.
>> Woodruff: McCARTHY SAID THE
PARK SHOOTINGS WERE RETALIATION
FOR AN EARLIER GANG-RELATED
SHOOTING THAT SAME DAY.
THE PROSPECT OF A FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN LOOMED EVER
LARGER TODAY, AS THE U.S. SENATE
HEADED TOWARD A KEY VOTE.
AT ISSUE IS A HOUSE-PASSED BILL
THAT KEEPS THE GOVERNMENT GOING,
BUT DEFUNDS THE PRESIDENT'S
HEALTH CARE LAW.
DEMOCRATS MEAN TO STRIP OUT THAT
PROVISION, BUT IT COULD TAKE ALL
WEEK.
WE'LL HAVE MORE ON THIS LATER IN
THE PROGRAM.
THE BODY THAT REGULATES COLLEGE
ATHLETICS WILL BEGIN GRADUALLY
RESTORING FOOTBALL SCHOLARSHIPS
TO PENN STATE UNIVERSITY,
STARTING NEXT YEAR.
THE SCHOOL WAS STRIPPED OF
SCHOLARSHIPS AFTER FORMER COACH
JERRY SANDUSKY'S CONVICTION FOR
SEXUALLY ABUSING 45 BOYS.
TODAY THE N.C.A.A. SAID PENN
STATE HAS MADE SUBSTANTIAL
PROGRESS SINCE THEN.
THE UNIVERSITY IS ALSO SERVING A
FIVE-YEAR BAN ON POST-SEASON
PLAY.
WALL STREET STRUGGLED TO HOLD
ITS GROUND TODAY.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST 66 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
15,334.
THE NASDAQ ROSE NEARLY 3 POINTS
TO CLOSE AT 3768.
STILL AHEAD ON THE NEWSHOUR, THE
PUSH FOR DIPLOMACY AT THE
GENERAL ASSEMBLY; THE BUDGET
SHOWDOWN THAT COULD CAUSE A
GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN; OPTIONS FOR
YOUNG ADULTS UNDER HEALTH CARE
REFORM; WHAT THE SALE OF
BLACKBERRY SAYS ABOUT THE
STRUGGLE TO STAY CURRENT; AND
THE LIFE AND TIMES OF JESUS OF
NAZARETH.
>> Ifill: DIPLOMATIC DILEMMAS IN
SYRIA AND IRAN OCCUPIED CENTER
STAGE TODAY AT THE UNITED
NATIONS, AS PRESIDENT OBAMA AND
OTHER WORLD LEADERS MET FOR
THEIR ANNUAL MEETING.
CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
CORRESPONDENT MARGARET WARNER IS
THERE.
>> IT'S AN INSULT TO HUMAN
REASON AND TO THE LEGITIMACY OF
THIS INSTITUTION TO SUGGEST THAT
ANYONE OTHER THAN THE REGIME
CARRIED THROUGHOUT ATTACK.
>> Warner: PRESIDENT OBAMA CAME
TO THE U.N. GATHERING ASSERTING
HE'D BEEN ENTIRELY RIGHT TO
THREATEN MILITARY RETALIATION
LAST MONTH OVER SYRIA'S ALLEGED
USE OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS AGAINST
CIVILIANS.
>> NOW, I KNOW THAT IN THE
IMMEDIATE AFTERMATH OF THE
ATTACK THERE WERE THOSE WHO
QUESTIONED THE LEGITIMACY OF
EVEN
ABSENCE OF A CLEAR MANDATE FROM
THE SECURITY COUNCIL.
BUT WITHOUT A CREDIBLE MILITARY
THREAT, THE SECURITY COUNCIL HAD
DEMONSTRATED NO INCLINATION TO
ACT AT ALL.
>> Warner: AND NOW, SAID THE
PRESIDENT, IT'S ESSENTIAL THE
COUNCIL DOES ACT TO MAKE SURE
THE ASSAD REGIME HANDS OVER ITS
CHEMICAL STOCKPILE FOR DISPOSAL
AS OUTLINED IN A U.S./RUSSIAN
AGREEMENT.
>> THERE MUST BE A STRONG
SECURITY COUNCIL RESOLUTION TO
VERIFY THAT THE ASSAD REGIME IS
KEEPING ITS COMMITMENTS AND
THERE MUST BE CONSEQUENCES FOR
THEM TO DO SO.
IF WE CANNOT AGREE EVEN ON THIS
THEN IT WILL SHOW THAT THE
UNITED NATIONS IS INCAPABLE OF
ENFORCING THE MOST BASIC OF
INTERNATIONAL LAWS.
>> Warner: BUT IN MOSCOW TODAY
IT WAS CLEAR THE U.S. AND RUSSIA
REMAIN AT ODDS OVER WHETHER ANY
RESOLUTION SHOULD THREATEN
MILITARY FORCE OR OTHER PUNITIVE
STEPS AGAINST SYRIA IF IT FAILS
TO COMPLY.
RUSSIAN DEPUTY FOREIGN MINISTER.
>> ( translated ): IN THIS
SITUATION, THE ATTEMPTS OF THE
AMERICANS ACTIVELY SUPPORTED BY
THE ENGLISH AND FRENCH  PUSH
THE SECURITY COUNCIL THAT WOULD
OBTAIN A DIRECT DANGER TO SERE
YO YAH IS ILLOGICAL.
>> Warner: RUSSIA IS NEGOTIATING
A SETTLEMENT TO THE TWO FWHAF
YEAR CONFLICT BUT HAS STOOD BY
ITS LONG TIME ALLY PRESIDENT
BASHAR AL-ASSAD AGAINST CALLS
FOR HIM TO STEP DOWN.
BACK AT THE U.N. TODAY,
PRESIDENT OBAMA WAS DISMISSIVE.
>> THE NOTION THAT SYRIA CAN
SOMEHOW RETURN TO A PRE-WAR
STATUS QUO IS A FANTASY.
IT'S TIME FOR RUSSIA AND IRAN TO
REALIZE THAT INSISTING ON
ASSAD'S ROLE WILL LEAD DIRECTLY
TO THE OUTCOME THAT THEY FEAR,
AN INCREASINGLY VIOLENT SPACE
FOR EXTREMISTS TO OPERATE.
>> Warner: TURKEY ALSO WANTS
REGIME CHANGE IN SYRIA AND
TURKISH PRESIDENT ABDULLAH GHOUL
URGED THE U.N. ON STOPPING NOT
JUST THE USE OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS
BUT THE WAR ITSELF.
>> NOW WE SPEAK OF OVER A
HUNDRED THOUSAND DEATHS.
IF WE CANNOT STOP THIS CONFLICT
NOW LET'S ASSURE THE WE WILL BE
TALKING ABOUT TWICE THAT NUMBER
NEXT YEAR.
I CANNOT EMPHASIZE ENOUGH
AGREEMENT ON CHEMICAL WEAPONS
MUST NOT BE ALLOWED TO
SUBSTITUTE FOR THE COMPREHENSIVE
STRATEGY TO ADDRESS THE
SITUATION IN SYRIA.
>> Warner: U.N. SECRETARY
GENERAL BAN KI-MOON ALSO
APPEALED FOR AN END TO THE
KILLING AND TO THAT END HE URGED
A HALT TO ALL SHIPMENTS OF
WEAPONS INTO SYRIA.
>> WE CAN HARDLY BE SATISFIED
WITH DESTROYING CHEMICAL WEAPONS
WHILE THE WIDER WORLD SR. AKIN
TO DESTROYING WHOLE SYRIA.
I APPEAL TO BOTH SIDES TO STOP
THE BLOODSHED AND TEND ARMS FLOW
TO ALL THE PARTIES.
>> Warner: THE PRESIDENT'S OTHER
MAJOR FOCUS-- THE PROSPECT OF A
NEW DIPLOMATIC INITIATIVE
RESOLVE THE STANDOFF OVER IRAN'S
NUCLEAR PROGRAM.
THE COUNTRY'S NEWLY ELECTED
PRESIDENT HASSAN ROUHANI HAS
SHOWN SIGNS OF MODERATION AND
HAS BEEN WILLING TO NEGOTIATE
OVER THE NUCLEAR ISSUE.
MR. OBAMA SAID HE WELCOMED THE
CHANGE IN TONE.
>> WE ARE ENCOURAGED THAT
PRESIDENT ROUHANI RECEIVE FROM
THE IRANIAN PEOPLE A MANDATE TO
PURSUE A MORE MODERATE COURSE
AND, GIVEN PRESIDENT ROUHANI'S
STATED COMMITMENT TO REACH AN
AGREEMENT I AM DIRECTING JOHN
KERRY TO PURSUE THIS EFFORT WITH
THE IRANIAN GOVERNMENT IN CLOSE
COOPERATION WITH THE EUROPEAN
UNION, THE UNITED KINGDOM,
FRANCE, GERMANY, RUSSIA, AND
CHINA.
THE ROADBLOCKS MAY PROVE TO BE
TOO GREAT BUT I FIRMLY BELIEVE
THE DIPLOMATIC PATH MUST BE
TESTED.
>> Warner: BUT AT THE SAME TIME,
THE PRESIDENT INSISTED IRAN'S
WORDS MUST BE BACKED UP BY
ACTIONS THAT A TRANSPARENT AND
VERIFIABLE.
>> WE ARE NOT SEEKING REGIME
CHANGE AND WE RESPECT THE RIGHT
OF THE IRANIAN PEOPLE TO ACCESS
PEACEFUL NUCLEAR ENERGY.
INSTEAD WE INSIST THAT THE
IRANIAN GOVERNMENT MEET ITS
RESPONSIBILITIES UNDER THE
NUCLEAR NONPROLIFERATION TREATY
AND U.N. SECURITY COUNCIL
RESOLUTIONS.
>> Warner: PRESIDENT ROUHANI
PLANS TO MEET WITH EUROPEAN
LEADERS ON THE SIDELINES OF THE
U.N. SESSION.
BUT HE WON'T BE MEETING WITH
PRESIDENT OBAMA.
A SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL
SAID TODAY THAT THE IRANIANS
TOLD THE U.S. IT WAS "TOO
COMPLICATED" TO MEET THIS WEEK.
A SHORT TIME AGO, IRANIAN
PRESIDENT ROUHANI SPOKE AT THE
UNITED NATIONS, STRIKING A
CONCILIATORY TONE ON HIS
COUNTRY'S NUCLEAR PROGRAM.
HE ALSO SAID THAT HE HOPES
PRESIDENT OBAMA WOULD NOT BE
SWAYED BY "WARMONGERING PRESSURE
GROUPS."
>> ( translated ): NUCLEAR
WEAPONS AND OTHER WEAPONS OF
MASS DESTRUCTION HAVE NO PLACE
IN IRAN'S SECURITY AND DEFENSE
DOCTRINE AND CONTRADICT OUR
FUNDAMENTAL RELIGIOUS AND
ETHICAL CONVICTIONS.
OUR INTERESTS MAKE IT IMPERIVE
THAT WE REMOVE ANY AND ALL
REASONABLE CONCERNS ABOUT IRAN'S
PEACEFUL NUCLEAR PROGRAM.
WE CAN AL LINE A FRAMEWORK TO
MANAGE OUR DIFFERENCES.
>> Ifill: MARGARET JOINS ME FROM
THE UNITED NATIONS NOW.
MARGARET, EARLIER TODAY, THE
PRESIDENT DIRECTED HIS SECRETARY
OF STATE TO MEET WITH HIS
COUNTERPART.
IS -- HIS IRANIAN COUNTERPART
THAN WE EXPECTED AND THOUGHT
THERE MIGHT BE A HAND SHAKE OR A
SIDELINE MEETING AT THE UNITED
NATIONS BETWEEN THE TWO LEADERS,
AS YOU JUST REPORTED, THAT
DIDN'T HAPPEN AND NOW TONIGHT
ROUHANI IS SAYING PERHAPS
CONDITIONALLY THESE MEETINGS
MIGHT OCCUR.
WHAT'S REALLY HAPPENING?
>> WELL, WHAT'S REALLY HAPPENING
GWEN, IS THAT TO DIRECT
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY TO
DEAL DIRECTLY THE IRANIAN
FOREIGN MINISTER BUMPS UP THESE
TALKS ABOUT IRAN'S NUCLEAR
PROGRAM TO A WHOLE NEW LEVEL
THEY'LL TAKE PLACE IN THE
CONTEXT OF THE P5+1 WHICH IS THE
PERMANENT MEMBERS OF THE
SECURITY COUNCIL PLUS GERMANY
BUT THESE HAVE GONE FOR YEARS,
THE ENTIRE OBAMA FIRST TERM,
WITHOUT ANY REAL RESULTS.
THIS MOVES UP TO A NEW LEVEL A
COMMITMENT FROM THE LEADERSHIP
TO HAVE THEIR SENIOR DIPLOMATS
ENGAGED AND SOME FEEL ALSO MAY
OPEN THE POSSIBILITY OF A DIRECT
SORT OF BILATERAL CONVERSATION
BETWEEN KERRY AND SHARIF.
THE REASON IS THAT THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION FEELS A GREAT
SENSE OF URGENCY TO MOVE QUICKLY
ON THIS.
ROUHANI IS UNDER BIG PRESSURE.
I MEAN, HE GOT ELECTED WITH THE
PROMISE OF PURSUING A MORE
MODERATE COURSE, NOT OUT OF, YOU
KNOW, A BIG CHANGE OF HEART ON
IRAN'S PART, BUT TO GET THESE
CRIPPLING SANCTIONS EASED AND
THE SUPREME LEADER SPORTS THEM.
THERE IS A BELIEF HERE IN THE
THAUS HE DOESN'T HAVE LONG TO
DELIVER BEFORE HARD-LINERS
POUNCE AND FOR THE UNITED STATES
AND ISRAEL THE WINDOW ALSO
CLOSING BECAUSE IRAN HAS BEEN,
AS WE KNOW ENHANCING ITS
CAPABILITYS SO TREMENDOUSLY.
THEY'VE NOW GOT
18,000 CENTRIFUGES TO ENRICH
URANIUM THAT THEY ARE NOT FAR
FROM THE ABILITY TO BREAK OUT
AND CREATE A NUCLEAR WEAPON
RIGHT UNDER THE NOSE OF THE
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY IN SUCH
A SHORT TIME THAT MILITARY
ACTION DOESN'T BECOME FEASIBLE.
SO THE PRESIDENT WANTS TO AVOID
A KIND OF ROPE-A-DOPE STRATEGY
IN WHICH THE U.S. GETS SUCKED
BACK INTO ENDLESS NEGOTIATIONS
WHILE IRAN CONTINUES TO BEEF UP
ITS CAPABILITIES AND BUMPING
THIS UP TO WHERE KERRY MEETS ON
THURSDAY IN ONE OF THESE GROUP
MEETINGS IS A REAL INDICATION OF
THAT.
>> Ifill: MARGARET, AS YOU KNOW
AS WELL AS ANYBODY SPEECHES ARE
ONE THING, EVEN CHOREOGRAPHED
HAND SHAKES ARE ANOTHER, BUT
REALITY.
DID REALITY SHIFT TODAY?
>> WELL, IF PERCEPTION IS
REALITY, YES I MEAN, YOU HAD AN
ENTIRE AUDIENCE OF WORLD LEADERS
AND THE ENTIRE WORLD FOCUSED ON
THE SPEECHES OF THESE TWO MEN.
PRESIDENT OBAMA MADE CLEAR HE
WANTS TO PURSUE A DIPLOMATIC
TRACK OR IT'S WORTH TESTING THE
DIPLOMATIC TRACK.
AT THE SAME TIME, HE DIDN'T GIVE
UP THE PROSPECT OF MILITARY
FORCE AND ROUHANI WAS CERTAINLY
NOT AS BELLICOSE AND SABER
RATTLING AS HIS PREDECESSOR,
AHMADINEJAD, USED TO BE AT THESE
GATHERINGS, AS WE ALL REMEMBER,
TALKING ABOUT THE HOLOCAUST NOT
BEING REAL AND JUST A LOT OF
INFLAMMATORY LANGUAGE.
BUT THAT SAID, TALKING TO SENIOR
U.S. OFFICIALS JUST NOW THEY
DIDN'T SEE IN ROUHANI'S SPEECH
NECESSARILY A GREAT -- YOU KNOW,
THERE WAS NOT MUCH LEG OR ANKLES
SHOWN IN THIS SPEECH AND THERE
CERTAINLY WAS NO SPECIFICS ABOUT
WHAT IRAN MIGHT BE WILLING TO
GIVE.
THEY DIDN'T EXPECT THAT IN THE
SPEECH.
I MEAN, WHO WOULD NEGOTIATE IN A
SPEECH?
BUT THE ATTITUDE OF THE
ADMINISTRATION HERE IS REALITY
MAY HAVE CHANGED BUT THAT REALLY
REMAINS TO BE DEMONSTRATED AND
THE MEETING FRIDAY, WHILE NOT A
TRUE NEGOTIATING MEETING, WILL
BE THE FIRST TUNTD FOR THESE TWO
FOREIGN MINISTERS TO TEST EACH
OTHER'S METTLE ON THAT.
>> Ifill: AND THERE'S NO SENSE
AMONG THE U.S. OFFICIALS YOU
TALKED TO THAT REFUSAL TO MEET
EVEN ON THE SIDELINES FROM IRAN
WAS A SNUB OF ANY KIND?
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, I DON'T --
THEY DON'T CALL IT A SNUB.
THE WAY IT HAPPENED WAS STAFFERS
AT THE LOWER LEVEL-- DIRECTLY,
NOT THROUGH INTERMEDIARIES--
TALKED ABOUT THE POSSIBILITY OF
THE TWO MEN HAVING SOME KIND OF
INFORMALAL ENCOUNTER.
IT WAS AT THE INSTIGATION OF THE
U.S.
THE U.S. HAS MADE IT VERY CLEAR
THAT IT WAS AT THE INSTIGATION
OF THE U.S. AND ONE SENIOR U.S.
OFFICIAL JUST SAID TO A GROUP OF
US JUST NOW "YOU KNOW, THAT WAS
A LITTLE BIT OF A TEST, WE WANT
TO MAKE SURE THAT THE WORLD
KNOWS THAT WE'RE THE ONES ALWAYS
READY TO TALK.
BUT THE CLEAR INDICATION THEY
GOT WAS, AS I SAID?
MY PEACE, THAT IT WAS JUST TOO
DICEY FOR ROUHANI BACK AT HOME
AND THIS OFFICIAL SAID, YOU KNOW
IT'S ONE THING TO MEET WITH THE
FRENCH PRESIDENT, BUT IT'S
ANOTHER THING IN IRAN, THE
RELATIONSHIP WITH THE U.S.
REMAINS JUST AS-- HE DIDN'T SAY
NEUROAL JIM, HE SAID
CONTROVERSIAL-- BUT AS THE U.S.
IRANIAN CONFLICT REMAINS HERE.
AND RUE ROUHANI HAS TO TREAD
DELICATELY AND A PHOTO-OP WAS
NOT IN THE CARDS FOR THEM.
>> Ifill: THE PRESIDENT HAD
TOUGH WORDS ABOUT THE U.N. AND
ITS REFUSAL TO ACT IN HIS VIEW
ON SYRIA.
WAS THERE ANYTHING IN REMARKS
ADDRESSED BEFORE THE GENERAL
ASSEMBLY WHICH MOVED THE BALL ON
THAT?
>> YOU KNOW, I WOULDN'T SAY IT
MOVED THE BALL.
I THINK WHAT HE WANTED TO
INDICATE IS, LOOK, THE THREAT OF
MILITARY ACTION AND U.S.
MILITARY FORCE IS STILL OUT
THERE.
WE'RE WILLING TO GIVE THE U.N.
ANOTHER SHOT AT THIS TO PUT ITS
IMPRIMATUR WITH A STRONG
RESOLUTION BEHIND THE DEAL THAT
LAVROV AND I NEGOTIATED.
BUT THERE IS -- AND HE DIDN'T
SAY IT AS A THREAT BUT THERE'S
THE IMPLICIT THREAT.
HE DID NOT BACK DOWN FROM HIS
EARLER PROPOSAL TO USE MILITARY
FORCE.
SO THE BALL IS BACK IN RUSSIA'S
COURT TO SOME DEGREE.
RIGHT NOW I DON'T KNOW IF
THEY'VE JUST FINISHED BUT
FOREIGN MINISTER LAVROV AND
SECRETARY KERRY ARE HAVING A
MEETING AND AS WE REPORTED IN
THE SETUP PIECE, THEY REMAIN AT
LOGGERHEADS OVER WHETHER THE
RESOLUTION SHOULD HAVE EMBEDDED
IN IT SOME SENSE THAT THERE WILL
BE CONSEQUENCES TO BE PAID BY
SYRIA IF IT REALLY DOESN'T
COMPLY.
NIL FILL ALL REALLY FASCINATING
MARGARET, THANK YOU SO MUCH.
WE'LL SEE YOU AGAIN FROM NEW
YORK AGAIN.
>> Ifill: ONLINE, WE'VE CAPTURED
SPEECHES FROM VARIOUS HEADS OF
STATE TODAY, INCLUDING PRESIDENT
OBAMA'S AND IRAN'S PSIDERENT
ROUHANI.
FIND THOSE ON OUR HOME PAGE.
>> Woodruff: WE TURN NOW TO
DOMESTIC POLITICS AND THE BATTLE
OVER THE BUDGET AS CONGRESSIONAL
LEADERS FACE A MONDAY DEADLINE.
KWAME HOLMAN BEGINS OUR
COVERAGE.
HOLE THOL WITH THE SENATE
GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN A WEEK AWAY,
REPUBLICANS STARTED LIKE THEY
WERE STARTING AN OLD-FASHIONED
FILIBUSTER.
>> I INTEND TO SPEAK IN
OPPOSITION TO OBAMACARE.
I INTEND TO SPEAK IN SUPPORT OF
DEFUNDING OBAMACARE UNTIL I AM
NO LONGER ABLE TO STAND.
THE.
>> Holman: BUT DEMOCRATIC
MAJORITY LEADER HARRY REID
INSISTED NO ONE CAN BLOCK
TOMORROW'S VOTE TO TAKE UP A
HOUSE BILL THAT FUNDS THE
GOVERNMENT PAST OCTOBER 1.
>> THERE'S NO FILIBUSTER GOING
ON NOW.
PEOPLE CAN COME AND TALK BUT
THEY CAN'T DO ANYTHING TO CHANGE
WHEN WE VOTE.
IS HOLE THOL HOUSE BILL PAYS FOR
GOVERNMENT OPERATIONS INTO
MID-DECEMBER.
BUT ALSO DEFUNDS THE PRESIDENT'S
HEALTH CARE LAW.
SENATE DEMOCRATS MEAN TO TAKE UP
THAT BILL, REMOVE LANGUAGE ON
OBAMACARE, AND FUND THE
GOVERNMENT THROUGH MID-NOVEMBER.
CRUZ AND OTHER CONSERVATIVES ARE
PUSHING FELLOW REPUBLICANS TO
BLOCK ALL ACTION, OTHERWISE, HE
SAYS, IT'S JUST BUSINESS AS
USUAL.
>> YOU KNOW, IT'S A LITTLE BIT
LIKE THE WORLD WRESTLING
FEDERATION.
IT'S WRESTLING MATCHS WHERE IT'S
ALL RIGGED, THE OUTCOME IS
PRE-DETERMINED, THEY KNOW IN
ADVANCE WHO'S GOING TO WIN AND
LOSE AND IT'S ALL FOR SHOW!
>> Holman: BUT CRUZ'S PLAN HAS
SPLINTERED CONSERVATIVE RANKS.
THE SENATE'S TOP REPUBLICAN,
MITCH McCONNELL, SAYS HE'LL VOTE
TO TAKE UP THE HOUSE BILL
BECAUSE IT INCLUDES MANY
PROVISIONS HE SUPPORTS.
>> WE'D ALL BE HARD PRESSED TO
EXPLAIN WHY WE WERE OPPOSED TO A
BILL WE WERE IN FAVOR OF.
AND INVOKING CLOTURE ON A BILL
THAT DEFUNDS OBAMACARE, DOESN'T
RAISE TAXES AND RESPECTS THE
BUDGET CONTROL ACT STRIKES ME AS
A NO-BRAINER.
>> Holman: THE "WALL STREET
JOURNAL" EDITORIALIZED AGAINST
THE CRUZ STRATEGY TODAY WRITING:
MEANWHILE, SENATOR REID ASSERTED
THAT ANY DELAY COULD UP THE
CHANCES OF A SHUTDOWN.
>> IF WE FINISH THIS ON SUNDAY,
SEND IT BACK TO THE HOUSE, THE
HOUSE IS TALKING ABOUT CHANGING
IT AGAIN!
AND THAT IS A SURE-FIRE WAY TO
SHUT DOWN THE GOVERNMENT.
>> Holman: SO FAR, HOUSE
REPUBLICAN LEADERS HAVE
>> Woodruff: TO HELP US
UNDERSTAND THE FORCES AT PLAY IN
THIS FISCAL FIGHT, WE TURN TO
JOURNALIST ROBERT DRAPER.
HE HAS COVERED REPUBLICAN
POLITICS AND IS THE AUTHOR OF
"WHEN THE TEA PARTY CAME TO
TOWN."
AND MEREDITH SHINER.
SHE COVERS THE U.S. SENATE FOR
THE NEWSPAPER ROLL CALL.
SO MEREDITH SHINER, BEFORE WE
GET TO THE SENATE, REFRESH OUR
MEMORIES ON WHAT HAPPENED IN THE
HOUSE.
WHY DID THEY PASS A BUDGET THAT
EVIDENTLY DOESN'T HAVE A CHANCE
OF PASSING THE SENATE?
>> SO THEY PASSED A THREE-MONTH
SHORT TERM APPROPRIATIONS BILL
TO TRY TO AVERT A GOVERNMENT
SHUTDOWN, BUT ONE OF THE WAYS
THEY WERE ABLE TO GET THEIR
CONSERVATIVE MEMBERS TO DO THAT
WAS TO INCLUDE A PRO STRIGS
DEFUND THE PRESIDENT'S HEALTH
CARE LAW.
THIS IS THE 41st TIME THEY VOTED
TO DO THAT.
IF YOU'RE KEEPING SCORE AT HOME,
WE STILL HAVEN'T DEFUNDED THE
LAW YET BECAUSE THE SENATE IS
STILL CONTROLLED BY DEMOCRATS
AND THE PRESIDENT-- WHOSE
LANDMARK ACHIEVEMENT THIS LAW
IS-- IS NOT GOING TO ACTUALLY
SUPPORT THAT.
SO THEY SENT THIS BECAUSE THEY
NEEDED TO ACTUALLY JUST START
THE PROCESS.
WITHOUT THEM SHOWING WHAT THEY
COULD ACTUALLY PASS, THE SENATE
COULDN'T THEN ACT.
THE BIGGEST PROBLEM NOW IS JUST
TIME, BECAUSE AS SENATE MAJORITY
LEADER HARRY REID SAID, IF THEY
EAT THE ENTIRE CLOCK
PROCEDURALLY, THEY WON'T PASS
ANYTHING UNTIL SUNDAY AND
THEY'LL HAVE ONE DAY TO AVERT A
SHUTDOWN AND THE HOUSE WILL MOST
CERTAINLY TRY TO CHANGE WHAT
WHAT THEY SAID THEM.
>> Woodruff: ROBERT DRAPER,
ENOUGH SPECTACLE NOW WHERE YOU
HAVE THREE FRESHMEN -- TWO OR
THREE FRESHMEN REPUBLICAN
SENATORS-- TED CRUZ OF TEXAS
BEING THE MOST PROMINENT
OUTSPOKEN-- STANDING AGAINST THE
LEADERSHIP OF THEIR OWN PARTY.
HOW UNUSUAL IS THAT?
>> WELL, VERY UNUSUAL IN LIGHT
OF THE FACT THAT IN 2010, 87
REPUBLICANS USHERED JOHN BANE
INTERTHE SPEAKERSHIP.
SO YOU COULD SAY THAT HE WAS
BEHOLDEN TO THE TEA PARTY
MOVEMENT.
YOU CAN'T THEY RIGHT NOW.
AFTER ALL, THE REPUBLICANS LOST
THE TWELVE ELECTION AND THEY'RE
AT PAINS TO FIGURE OUT HOW THEY
CLIMB OUT OF THE WILDERNESS.
THAT'S THEIR QUANDARY, JUDY,
BECAUSE ON THE ONE HAND THEY
FEEL LIKE THEY HAVE TO REACH OUT
BEYOND THE BASE.
ON THE OTHER HAND, TO THE EXTENT
THAT THERE IS ANY AN MISSION
WITHIN THE REPUBLICAN PARTY IT'S
PROVIDED BY TED CRUZ, MIKE LEE
AND RAND PAUL.
SO THERE'S
EXCITEMENT GENERATED AT ALL
WITHIN THE REPUBLICAN PARTY,
IT'S THOSE GUYS.
>> Woodruff: MERETHDI SHINER,
SOMEHOW THE REPUBLICAN
LEADERSHIP?
THE SENATE?
WE JUST HEARD FROM SENATOR
McCONNELL.
HOW DO THEY LOOK ON THIS?
I MEAN THEY -- DO THEY HAVE A
PLAN FOR WHAT THEY'RE GOING DO?
>> I THINK THEY'RE
EXTRAORDINARILY FRUSTRATED.
EVERY TUESDAY SENATE REPUBLICANS
HAVE LUNCH AND TODAY THEY TRIED
TO CONVINCE TED CRUZ THAT THEY
WANTED TO MOVE FORWARD
PROCEDURALLY, THAT THEY SHOULD
GIVE CONSENT TO DEMOCRATS TO
MOVE FORWARD SO THEY COULD AVERT
A SHUTDOWN AND TED CRUZ SAID NO,
IF YOU TRY TO DO THAT, I WILL
OBJECT.
SO, AGAIN, THIS IS PROBABLY
GOING TO GO UNTIL SUNDAY AND
SENATE REPUBLICAN LEADERS KNOW
THAT ULTIMATELY YOU AREN'T GOING
TO BE ABLE TO DEFUND THIS LAW
WITH THIS EFFORT SO THEY'RE
WONDERING WHAT THE ENDS ARE,
BECAUSE THEY'RE NOT TALKING
ABOUT THE THINGS THAT
REPUBLICANS ARE USUALLY
COMFORTABLE TALKING ABOUT.
WE'RE NOT TALKING ABOUT SPENDING
LEVELS.
WE'RE NOT TALKING ABOUT
SEQUESTRATION.
WE'RE NOT TALKING ABOUT THE
THINGS SPENDING BILLS ARE
SUPPOSED TO BE ABOUT.
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT SOMETHAT
THAT IS RIGHT NOW NOT AN
ACHIEVABLE POLITICAL REALITY.
>> Woodruff: SO CLEARLY, ROBERT
DRAPER, CRUZ AND THE OTHER
SENATORS-- MIKE LEE OF UTAH, I
GUESS MARCO RUBIO OF FLORIDA IS
STILL BACKING THIS EFFORT--
>> TO SOME DEGREE, YES.
WITH IT'S A DOUBLE-EDGED SWORD
BECAUSE ON THE ONE HAND THEIR
BELIEF IS CLEARLY THAT OBAMACARE
IS SO UNPOPULAR WITH THE PUBLIC
BUT ULTIMATELY IT'S PRESIDENT
OBAMA NOT THE REPUBLICANS WHO
WILL HAVE TO FOLD ON THIS
STANDOFF.
ON THE OTHER HAND, IN FACT,
THERE'S A PEW RESEARCH CENTER
THAT DID THIS POLL RECENTLY THAT
INDICATES --.
>> Woodruff: WE GOT SOME POLL
RESULTS WE CAN SHOW.
>> RIGHT, THAT ONLY 42% OF
AMERICANS SUPPORT OBAMACARE.
BUT ONLY 38% SUPPORT THE EFFORTS
TO DEFUND IT.
AND THAT NUMBER GOES WAY DOWN,
IN FACT, IT'S CUT IN HALF,
ESSENTIALLY, WHEN THE PUBLIC IS
ASKED IF IT WOULD LEAD TO A
GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN WOULD YOU
CONTINUE TO SUPPORT IT, THE
DEFUNDING MEASURE.
AND FURTHER MORE, THE PEOPLE WHO
REALLY ARE AGAINST DEFUNDING ARE
THOSE KINDS OF GROUPS, LATINOS
AND WOMEN, THAT THE REPUBLICANS
HAVE BEEN AT PAIN TO PERSUADE TO
JOIN THE PARTY.
>> Woodruff: MEREDITH SHINER,
WHAT'S THE THINKING ON THE PART
OF THE TEA PARTY MEMBERS.
WHAT ARE THEY HEARING FROM THEIR
CONSTITUENCIES THAT LEAD THEM ON
THIS CRUSADE?
>> I THINK IT'S A FEEDBACK
CYCLE.
YOU HEARD SOMEONE LIKE TED CRUZ
OR MIKE LEE GOING ON THE RADIO,
GOING ON CONSERVATIVE TELEVISION
SAYING THIS IS A REALITY THAT
YOU COULD VOTE TO DEFUND THIS
BILL, TO CUT THIS BILL OUT FROM
UNDERNEATH WHAT THE DEMOCRATS
ARE TRYING TO DO.
MORE IMPLEMENTATION TAKES EFFECT
NEXT WEEK.
IF YOU WANTED TO ACTUALLY DEFUND
OR REVERSE THIS LAW, YOU HAVE TO
GET A REPUBLICAN PRESIDENT INTO
OFFICE AND SO I THINK THAT WHEN
YOU CONTINUE TO SAY THAT MESSAGE
THAT THIS IS SOMETHING THAT WE
CAN DO, THAT'S WHY YOU HAVE 41
VOTES IN THE HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES TO TRY TO
ACHIEVE THIS, BECAUSE YOU HAVE
THESE CONSTITUENTS WHO ARE
HEARING THAT MESSAGE WHO THEN
PRESSURE THESE CONSERVATIVE
MEMBERS TO PUSH FORWARD.
AND SO IT REALLY BINDS
LEADERSHIP.
>> Woodruff: HELP US UNDERSTAND
THIS DIVIDE THAT WE'RE WATCH,
ROBERT DRAPER, AMONG
CONSERVATIVES AND AMONG
REPUBLICANS.
HOW IS IT BREAKING DOWN OUT
THERE IN THE COUNTRY AND HERE IN
WASHINGTON.
>> IT'S BECOME EVEN MORE
CONFUSED THAN IT WAS IN
2010/2011 WHE WHERE WE SAW THIS
SCHISM BETWEEN THE TEA PARTY
MOVEMENT AND ESTABLISHMENT
REPUBLICANS.
TED CRUZ IS NOT STRICTLY
SPEAKING A LIBERTARIAN.
HE AND RAND PAUL DON'T AGREE ON
EVERY SINGLE THING, NOR DOES HE
AGREE ON EVERYTHING SIN THING
WITH MARCO RUBIO WHO CAME IN
WITH THE TEA PARTY MOVEMENT.
WHAT'S FRUSTRATING TO THE "WALL
STREET JOURNAL" EDITORIAL BOARD,
TO KARL ROVE AND TO OTHER
SO-CALLED ESTABLISHMENT
REPUBLICANS OR ESTABLISHMENT
CONSERVATIVES WHO HAVE COME OUT
AGAINST TED CRUZ IS THAT CRUZ'S
GAMBIT LACKS A STRATEGY.
IT SEEMS TO ME JUST SORT OF
THROWING A BOMB AT THE THING
WITHOUT ANY PARTICULAR END GAME.
AND THEIR CONCERN IS THAT THIS
IS GOING TO BLOW BACK
HISTORICALLY IT HAS AGAINST
REPUBLICANS AND GOVERNMENT
SHUTDOWNS BUT THIS WILL THERE
PARTICULAR BECAUSE THERE'S NO
END IN SIGHT.
EVEN SENATOR CRUZ HAS NOT
SUGGESTED PRECISELY HOW ALL OF
THIS IS GOING TO PLAY OUT.
>> Woodruff: SPEAKING OF HOW IT
ALL PLAYS OUT, MEREDITH, WHAT
HAPPENS?
ASSUMING THE SENATE CHANGES THIS
BILL, TAKES OUT THE PART THAT
DEFUNDS OBAMACARE, SENDS IT BACK
TO THE HOUSE, WHAT ARE THE
PROSPECTS OF THAT FOR FUNDING
THE GOVERNMENT?
>> THAT'S THE $98 MILLION
QUESTION, BILLION DOLLAR
QUESTION AT THIS POINT.
THANK YOU FOR CORRECTING MY
MATH.
I DON'T KNOW.
I THINK THAT THEY DON'T REALLY
KNOW EXACTLY WHAT THEY'RE GOING
TO DO YET.
I THINK THEY'RE LOOKING TO
SENATE REPUBLICAN VOTES BECAUSE
IF THERE'S AN OVERWHELMING
PERCENTAGE OF THE SENATE
REPUBLICAN CONFERENCE THAT VOTES
IN FAVOR FOR THIS BILL IT WILL
BE EASIER FOR HOUSE REPUBLICAN
LEADERS TO SELL WHATEVER PACKAGE
OR CHANGES THAT THEY HAVE TO
MAKE.
THE PROBLEM RIGHT NOW IS THAT
YOU HAVE MULTIPLE DIVISIONS
WITHIN REPUBLICANS ON THE SENATE
SIDE.
YOU HAVE CONSERVATIVES LIKE TOM
COBURN WHO THINK THE SPENDING
LEVELS ARE TOO HIGH.
THEN YOU HAVE TO TED CRUZ "WE
NEED TO DEFUND THE HEALTH CARE
LAW."
>> Woodruff: MY QUESTION IS: ARE
THEY PREPARED TO SHUT DOWN THE
GOVERNMENT?
>> I THINK THEY HAVE TO BE
PARTICULARLY GIVEN WHAT THE
TIMELINE IS.
EVEN IF IT'S A TEMPORARY
SHUTDOWN.
IF YOU REMEMBER BACK IN THE
SPRING OF 2011 THERE WERE A FEW
HOURS IN WHICH THE GOVERNMENT
WAS SHUT DOWN.
YOU COULD SEE SOMETHAT THAT
WOULD BE IN THE DAYS LENGTH.
BUT IT DOESN'T SEEM THAT THEY
HAVE ANY END GAME STRATEGY.
BUT I DON'T KNOW, THEY TEND TO
PULL THINGS OUT AT THE END SO
WE'LL SEE.
RIGHT NOW IT SEEMS LIKE THEY'RE
PRETTY MUCH CAUGHT.
>> Woodruff: WELL, WATCH THIS
SPACE CLOSELY BETWEEN NOW AND
MONDAY.
MEREDITH SHINER, ROBERT DRAPER,
THANK YOU BOTH.
>> Ifill: AND SPEAKING OF THAT
BATTLE OVER OBAMACARE, IT WAS
THE SUBJECT OF A RARE PUBLIC
CONVERSATION BETWEEN PRESIDENT
OBAMA AND FORMER PRESIDENT
CLINTON.
THEY SAT DOWN TOGETHER TODAY AT
THE CLINTON GLOBAL INITIATIVE.
>> PART OF WHAT I THINK THE
RESISTANCE THAT WE'VE SEEN RAMP
UP, PARTICULARLY OVER THE LAST
COUPLE OF MONTHS IS ALL ABOUT IS
THE OPPONENTS OF HEALTH CARE
REFORM KNOW THEY'RE GOING TO
SIGN UP.
IN FACT, ONE OF THE MAJOR
OPPONENTS, WHEN ASKED "WELL WHY
IS IT THAT YOU'D POTENTIALLY
SHUT DOWN THE GOVERNMENT AT THIS
POINT JUST TO BLOCK OBAMACARE?"
HE BASICALLY 'FESSED UP.
HE SAID "WELL, ONCE CONSUMERS
GET HOOKED ON HAVING HEALTH
INSURANCE AND SUBSIDIES THEN
THEY WON'T WANT TO GIVE IT UP."
(LAUGHTER)
I MEAN, THAT'S -- YOU CAN LOOK
AT THE TRANSCRIPT THIS IS ONE OF
THE MAJOR OPPONENTS OF HEALTH
CARE REFORM.
IT IS AN ODD LOGIC.
ESSENTIALLY THEY'RE SAYING
"PEOPLE WILL LIKE THIS THING TOO
MUCH AND THEN IT WILL BE REALLY
HARD TO ROLL BACK."
>> Ifill: BEYOND THE POLITICS,
BOTH PRESIDENTS SPOKE AT LENGTH
TODAY ABOUT ONE KEY ASPECT OF
THE LAW-- WHAT IT WILL MEAN FOR
YOUNG ADULTS WHOSE ENROLLMENT IS
CRITICAL TO ITS POTENTIAL
SUCCESS.
THAT'S OUR FOCUS TONIGHT AS PART
OF OUR ONGOING SERIES IN WHICH
WE TRY TO ANSWER VIEWER
QUESTIONS ABOUT THE LAW.
MARY AGNES CAREY OF KAISER
HEALTH NEWS JOINS US.
KAISER HEALTH NEWS IS AN
INDEPENDENT ORGANIZATION
FOCUSING ON HEALTH POLICY.
WELCOME.
>> THANK YOU FOR HAVING ME.
>> Ifill: WE'RE GOING TO GET
RIGHT TO THE QUESTIONS.
THE FIRST IS A VIDEO QUESTION WE
GET FROM A STUDENT.
LET'S LOOK.
>> HI, I'M FROM WILLARD,
MISSOURI.
I WAS WONDERING HOW IT WOULD
AFFECT ME.
I'M GOING INTO COLLEGE IN THE
NEXT YEAR AND AFTER COLLEGE.
>> Ifill: THAT'S A GOOD
QUESTION.
WHAT HAPPENS TO COLLEGE STUDENTS
WHO SEE THEIR FUT
SHRINKING.
>> IT'S A GREAT QUESTION.
IN COLLEGE SHE COULD CERTAINLY
STAY ON HER PARENTS' HEALTH
INSURANCE PLAN UNTIL AGE 26.
THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT ALLOWS
THAT TO HAPPEN.
I WOULD CHECK OUT HER STUDENT
HEALTH PLAN.
WHAT DOES THAT OFFER?
IS THAT OF INTEREST TO HER?
AND ALSO AFTER COLLEGE SHE CAN
CERTAINLY STAY ON HER PARENTS'
HEALTH INSURANCE PLAN IF THAT
WERE A BETTER DEAL FOR HER.
HER NEW EMPLOYER MIGHT ACTUALLY
OFFER HER COVERAGE.
THERE WILL BE A CATASTROPHIC
OPTION FOR PEOPLE UP TO AGE 30.
PRETTY HIGH DEDUCTIBLE, $6,400
MINIMAL COVERAGE, THEN SHE COULD
LOOK AT THE SUBSIDIES IN THE
ONLINE EXCHANGES THAT ARE PART
OF THE HEALTH CARE LAW.
>> Ifill: A LOT OF DISCUSSION
ABOUT WHAT HAPPENS TO PEOPLE WHO
STAY ON THEIR PARENTS' HEALTH
CARE PLAN UNTIL THEY'RE 26.
LET'S TAKE A QUESTION FROM
SOMEONE -- VICKI IN CONCORD,
NORTH CAROLINA, WHO WANTS TO
KNOW WHAT HAPPENS.
SHE'S ACTUALLY AN ADULT OVER 26
WHO HAS NO INCOME AND HAS NOT
FILED AN INCOME TAX RETURN IS
YEAR AND IS NOT A DEPENDENT OF
ANYONE ELSE.
ARE THEY ELIGIBLE, SHE WANTS TO
KNOW, FOR SUBSIDY AND THE LIKE
THROUGH THE FEDERAL EXCHANGE?
>> MY FIRST THOUGHT WHEN I HEARD
ABOUT THIS SITUATION IS WHAT
ABOUT THE MEDICAID EXPANSION IF
HER STATE IS EXPANDING MEDICAID.
THE FEDERAL HEALTH LAW ALLOWS
INDIVIDUALS UP TO ABOUT $16,000
OF INCOME.
SHE SAYS SHE DOESN'T HAVE ANY
INCOME AND HASN'T FILED A TAX
RETURN IN YEARS.
WOULD THAT WILL BE A BETTER
OPTION THAN LOOKING AT THE
EXCHANGE?
>> Ifill: WOULD IT?
>> WELL, CHANCES ARE MEDICAID
WOULD OFFER MORE AFFORDABLE
COVERAGE FOR HER.
SHE COULD CERTAINLY, DEPENDING
ON HER INCOME LEVEL, SHE SAYS
SHE HAS NO INCOME, EXCHANGES ARE
OPEN TO PEOPLE OVER 100% OF
INCOME BUT IT COULD BE A BETTER
DEAL FOR HER, MEDICAID, COVER
MORE THAN -- AND AT A -- MORE
AFFORDABLE TO HER THAN
EXCHANGES.
>> Ifill: IT SOUNDS LIKE PEOPLE
DON'T RECOGNIZE MEDICAID WILL BE
THERE.
>> WELL, IT'S DIFFICULT BECAUSE
SOME STATES ARE PARTICIPATING
AND SOME ARE NOT.
>> Ifill: LET'S GO ON NOW TO
ANOTHER YOUNG PERSON WHO IS 26
YEARS OLD WHO SAYS THAT SHE'S
SINGLE, A FREELANCE PHOTOGRAPHER
MAKES ABOUT $6,000 A YEAR.
SHE SAYS I STILL LIVE WITH MY
PARENTS, I'M FROM DEEP SOUTH
TEXAS WHERE INCOME LEVELS ARE
VERY LOW.
I CURRENTLY DON'T HAVE ANY FORM
OF HEALTH INSURANCE AND DON'T
UNDERSTAND HOW IT WORKS.
WHAT OPTIONS WILL I HAVE TO
ACCESS AFFORDABLE HEALTH CARE?
>> THIS IS A COMPLICATED
QUESTION BECAUSE HER STATE IS
NOT EXPANDING MEDICAID.
>> Ifill: JUST WHAT WE WERE
TALKING ABOUT.
>> HER INCOME IS AROUND $6,000.
THE EXCHANGES ARE OPEN TO PEOPLE
ABOVE 100% OF THE POVERTY LINE.
THAT'S ABOUT $11,500.
IN THIS CASE I WOULD RECOMMEND
SHE LOOK AT COMMUNITY HEALTH
CENTERS.
THEY'RE ALL OVER THE COUNTRY,
THEY'VE RECEIVED ADDITIONAL
MONEY IN THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT
TO DO A VARIETY OF THINGS,
INCLUDING PROVIDING MORE HEALTH
CARE TO INDIVIDUALS AND YOUR PAY
IS BASED ON A SLIDING SCALE
BASED ON HER INCOME.
>> Ifill: I HAVE ONE MORE
QUESTION, E-MAIL QUESTION FROM A
VIEWER FOR YOU AND THIS IS AN
INTERESTING ONE, FROM FROM A
WOMAN IN ARIZONA WHO WRITES: I
HAVE A $25-YEAR-OLD DAUGHTER
WITH CEREBRAL PALSY WHO'S
PRESENTLY COVERED BY ARIZONA'S
VERSION OF MEDICAID.
WILL OBAMACARE CHANGE HER
MEDICAL COVERAGE?
I ALSO HAVE A 27-YEAR-OLD
DAUGHTER WHO PRESENTLY HAS NO
HEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE.
SHE IS UNDEREMPLOYED AND MAKES
JUST ABOUT POVERTY LEVEL INCOME.
ANY ADVICE FORER?
>> FOR THE YOUNGER CHILD ON
MEDICAID, YOU COULD NOT QUALIFY
HER FOR A SUBSIDY AND GO INTO
THE EXCHANGE SO SHE WILL STAY IN
MEDICAID.
FOR OLDER CHILD, IT SOUNDS LIKE
SHE COULD QUALIFY FOR A POSSIBLE
SUBSIDY ON THE EXCHANGE TO HELP
WITH HER PREMIUM AND ALSO TO GET
SOME HELP WITH CO-PAYS AND
DEDUCTIBLES BECAUSE, AS WE
REMEMBER, WHEN YOU LOOK AT YOUR
HEALTH CARE EXPENDITURES, IT'S
NOT JUST YOUR PREMIUM, IT'S YOUR
CO-PAYS AND DEDUCTIBLES.
SOUNDS LIKE THAT OLDER CHILD
COULD GET HELP ON THE EXCHANGE.
>> Ifill: WHY IS IT SUPREME
THESE BASIC QUESTIONS AT THIS
POINT?
IS IT BECAUSE IT'S JUST THAT
COMPLICATED OR IS IT THAT THERE
HAVEN'T BEEN ENOUGH
EXPLANATIONS?
>> IT IS JUST THAT COMPLICATED.
BUT ALSO I THINK PEOPLE ARE VERY
BUSY WITH THEIR LIVES.
THEY'RE WORKING, MAYBE TAKING
CARE OF THEIR PARENTS OR THEIR
CHILDREN AND NOW THAT THE
EXCHANGES ARE GOING TO OPEN UP
ON OCTOBER 1, THAT REALLY
FOCUSES PEOPLE'S ATTENTION.
WILL THIS BE A GOOD DEAL FOR HE?
DO I QUALIFY?
CAN I GET A SUBSIDY?
CAN I GET ASSISTANCE?
I THINK IT'S THE NATURAL COURSE
OF THINGS FOR PEOPLE NOT TO PAY
ATTENTION UNTIL THEY HAVE TO.
>> Woodruff: IS IT POSSIBLE THAT
THE POLITICAL DEBATE JUDY WAS
JUST TALKING ABOUT HAS MADE
PEOPLE THINK THIS IS NOT THE
LAW?
>> I CERTAINLY THINK THAT COULD
BE PART OF THE ISSUE.
THEY HEAR THE HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES HAS VOTED OVER
40 TIMES TO DEFUND ALL OR PART
OF THE LAW YOU MIGHT NOT
REMEMBER THAT IT IS, IN FACT,
STILL THE LAW OF THE LAND AND IS
BEING IMPLEMENTED.
SO THIS IS WHERE THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION ADMINISTRATION
HAS TO STEP UP AND EXPLAIN THE
EXCHANGES, THE MEDICAID
EXPANSION.
THEY WILL BE POSTING RATES SOON
ON THE FEDERALLY RUN EXCHANGES.
MANY STATES HAVE MADE THEIR
RATES THERE KNOWN AND SO PEOPLE
NEED TO LOOK AT IT AND FIGURE
OUT WHAT'S THE BEST DEAL FOR
THEM.
>> Ifill: LET'S TALK ABOUT
WHAT'S ACTUALLY LAW AND WHAT'S
REAL RIGHT NOW.
JUST FOR PEOPLE WHO GET TO STAY
ON THEIR PARENTS' INSURANCE
UNTIL THE AGE OF 26, HOW MANY
PEOPLE HAS THAT AFFECTED SINCE
THIS ACTION BECAME LAW?
>> AS OF DECEMBER-- ACCORDING TO
THE DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND
HUMAN SERVICES-- ABOUT 3.1
MILLION YOUNG ADULTS UP TO THE
AGE OF 26 HAVE STAYED ON THEIR
HEALTH INSURANCE PLAN.
IT'S ONE OF THE MORE POPULAR
PROVISIONS OF THE LAW.
IT'S BEEN A GOD SEND FOR COLLEGE
GRADUATES THAT MAYBE HAVEN'T
FOUND A JOB OR HAVEN'T FOUND A
JOB THAT OFFERS HEALTH CARE
INSURANCE.
>> Ifill: WE KNOW THREE MILLION
HAVE STAYED ON BUT HOW MANY MORE
ARE ELIGIBLE TO STAY ON?
DO WE KNOW?
>> WELL, THE ONE THOUGHT OF THIS
IS THAT THE EXCHANGES ROLL OUT,
THE GOVERNMENT IS TRYING TO AIM
ENROLLMENT AT OVER THREE MILLION
YOUNG ADULTS WHO ARE HEALTHY.
THEY TEND TO BE HEALTHIER TO TRY
TO GET THEM TO GET ENROLLED IN
HEALTH INSURANCE, WHETHER IT'S
ON THEIR PARENTS' PLAN OR THE
EXCHANGES BECAUSE AE KNOW
WHEN YOU'RE YOUNGER AND
HEALTHIER YOU BALANCE OUT THE
RISK OF THE OLDER SICKER PEOPLE.
>> Ifill: SO EVERYONE'S JUST
WAITING TO SEE WHETHER THIS
REALLY STAYS REAL.
>> RIGHT.
AND THEY HAVE TO SIMPLY LOOK AT
IT TO SEE WHAT'S THE BEST THING
FOR THEM.
IF.
>> Ifill: MARY AGNES CAREY OF
KAISER HEALTH NEWS, THANKS FOR
HELPING US.
>> SURE, MY PLEASURE.
>> Woodruff: NEXT, THE END OF AN
ERA FOR AN EMBATTLED SMARTPHONE
COMPANY.
LAST WEEK, BLACKBERRY ANNOUNCED
THAT IT WAS FACING A HUGE LOSS
DUE TO UNSOLD DEVICES, AND WOULD
LAY OFF ABOUT 40% OF ITS ALREADY
REDUCED WORKFORCE.
AND YESTERDAY IT SAID IT HAD
SIGNED A TENTATIVE AGREEMENT TO
BE PURCHASED AND TAKEN PRIVATE.
THE DEAL, WITH A GROUP LED BY
BLACKBERRY'S LARGEST
SHAREHOLDER, AMOUNTS TO $4.7
BILLION.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS OUR STORY.
>> Brown: HUGE PROBLEMS TODAY,
BUT IT'S NOT THAT LONG AGO THAT
THE TERM "CRACKBERRY" WAS COINED
BECAUSE SO MANY PEOPLE WERE NOT
ONLY USING BUT WERE SEEN AS
HOPELESSLY ADDICTED TO THE
COMPANY'S MOBILE DEVICES.
SO WHAT HAPPENED?
WE ASKED FARHAD MANJOO,
TECHNOLOGY COLUMNIST IN FOR THE
"WALL STREET JOURNAL."
FARHAD, WHY DID PEOPLE STOP
BUYING BLACKBERRYS?
>> WELL, THE SHORT ANSWER IS THE
IPHONE.
APPLE CREATED THIS DEVICE THAT
PROVED TO BE REALLY POPULAR AND
IMMEDIATELY CHANGED THE ENTIRE
SMART PHONE INDUSTRY.
BEFORE THE IPHONE CAME ALONG,
DEVICES THAT HAD HARDWARE
KEYBOARDS LIKE THE BLACKBERRY
WERE THE MOST POPULAR SMART
PHONES AND THEY WERE MOSTLY SOLD
TO BIG COMPANIES AND USED IN
BUSINESSES.
THE IPHONES CHANGED THAT
MARKETPLACE BECAUSE IT WAS SOLD
TO CONSUMERS AND IT BECAME THIS
REALLY FUN ATTRACTIVE DEVICE
THAT LOTS OF OTHER COMPANIES
TRIED TO MIMIC AND BLACKBERRY
LOST OUT IN THAT NEW MARKET.
>> Brown: JUST TO GIVE US SOME
PERSPECTIVE, WHERE WAS
BLACKBERRY, SAY, FIVE YEARS AGO
IN THAT MARKET?
>> BLACKBERRY WAS THE MOST
POPULAR SMART PHONING MAKER.
ACROSS THE WORLD ITS MARKET
SHARE WAS IN DOUBLE DIGITS AND
IT WAS REALLY PROFITABLE AND
DOING WELL IN THE STOCK MARKET.
IT WAS THE EQUIVALENT OF -- AS
SUCCESS AFL TECH COMPANY AS IS
POSSIBLE TO BE THAT WAS
BLACKBERRY.
SO AT THE TOP OF ITS GAME AROUND
THE TIME THE IPHONE CAME ALONG.
>> Brown: WHEN PEOPLE LOOK AND
TALK ABOUT WHAT HAPPENS TO A
TECHNOLOGY COMPANY THAT GOES
FROM THE LEADER AND DROPS, IN
THIS CASE WHAT WAS IT?
WAS IT JUST A BAD BET ON WHO IT
WOULD BE POPULAR WITH?
OR WHAT HAPPENED?
>> I THINK WHAT HAPPENED IS
COMPLACENCY.
BLACKBERRY HAD BECOME ADDICTED
TO A SINGLE WAY TO SELL ITS
DEVICES.
THE WAY IT SOLD ITS DEVICES WAS
THAT IT HAD RELATIONSHIPS WITH
IT MANAGERS AT BIG COMPANIES AND
THOSE I.T. MANAGERS ISSUED
BLACKBERRY'S PHONES TO THEIR
EMPLOYEES.
AND THAT WAS AN EASY WAY TO SELL
PHONES BECAUSE I.T. MANAGERS
HAVE A SORT OF LIMITED SET OF
NEEDS.
THEY NEED SECURE PHONES BUT THEY
DIDN'T REALLY NEED FLASHY
PHONES.
THEY DIDN'T NEED PHONES THAT RAN
A LOT OF APPS.
IN FACT, THEY WANTED PHONES THAT
DIDN'T RUN A LOT OF APPS AND
THAT MADE THEM SECURE.
THE MARKET CHANGED AND
BLACKBERRY DIDN'T RECOGNIZE IT
WHEN THE IPHONE CAME ALONG AND
APPLE AND LATER DEVICES RUNNING
GOOGLE ANDROID OPERATING SYSTEMS
BEGAN TO SELL DIRECTLY TO
CONSUMERS AND THOSE CONSUMERS
HAVE JOBS AND THEY DIDN'T WANT
TO USE THE PHONES THAT THEIR
COMPANIES WERE PROVIDING FOR
THEM SO THEIR I.T. MANAGERS
BEGAN TO LET THEM USE THE
DEVICES THEY BOUGHT FOR HOME USE
AND THAT'S SORT OF HOW THE
IPHONE AND ANDROID PHONES CREPT
INTO BLACKBERRY'S MARKET.
BLACKBERRY SUDDENLY REALIZED
THAT ITS CUSTOMERS, THE I.T.
MANAGERS, WEREN'T THE ONES
MAKING DECISIONS ANYMORE.
>> Brown: THESE TROUBLES, OF
COURSE, HAVE BEEN GOING ON FOR
SEVERAL YEARS AND I KNOW THE
COMPANY'S TRIED SEVERAL THINGS
IN THE LAST COUPLE YEARS TO TRY
TO MAINTAIN OR EVEN TURN IT
AROUND.
BUT TURNING IT AROUND FOR ANY
TECH COMPANY IS PRETTY HARD.
THERE AREN'T TOO MANY EXAMPLES
OF THAT.
>> YEAH, I MEAN, THERE'S
CERTAINLY ONE EXAMPLE YOU CAN
THINK OF OF A TECH COMPANY THAT
KIND OF HITS BOTTOM AND TURNS
AROUND AND THAT'S A UNTIL DURING
THE '90s WHEN STEVE JOBS RETURN
AND IT BECAME THE JUGGERNAUT IT
IS TODAY.
BUT THE WAY IT DID THAT IS BY --
YOU KNOW, ESSENTIALLY ABANDONING
ITS CURRENT MARKET, ITS MARKET
AT THE TIME, WHICH WAS P.C.s.
APPLE STILL MAKES P.C.s, BUT
WHAT IT DID WAS LEAPFROG THAT
AND COME UP WITH A RANGE OF
DEVICES, FIRST IPHONES AND TAP
LETS THAT BEAT THAT MARKET, IT
DID SOMETHAT THAT NEW.
BLACKBERRY DIDN'T REALLY TRY TO
DO THAT.
ITS WHOLE PROBLEM IS THAT IT
COULDN'T AND HAD SORT OF SHOWED
NO EXPERTISE IN INNOVATING
BEYOND THE SMART PHONE THAT IT
HAD BEFORE.
OFTEN OVER THE LAST FEW YEARS
IT'S RELEASED SEVERAL DIFFERENT
DEVICES THAT HAVE PROMISED TO BE
THE NEXT BIG THING AND THEY
TURNED OUT TO BE EITHER MIDDLE
OR NOT SO GREAT AND NOT
INNOVATIVE.
JUST COPYING WHAT OTHER PEOPLE
WERE DOING.
>> Brown: WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
BLACKBERRY, WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
APPLE.
JUST IN OUR LAST MINUTE, ANOTHER
COMPANY THAT PEOPLE ALWAYS LOOK
AT IN THIS REGARD AS BEING A
HUGE LEADER AND THEN WHAT
HAPPENS, THAT'S MICROSOFT,
ANOTHER BIG PLAYER STILL BUT
STILL TRYING TO FIND ITS WAY AND
ITS POSITION.
>> YEAH, I MEAN, AND THE STORY
FOR MICROSOFT IS SIMILAR.
IT HAD THIS HUGE MARKET, THE
P.C., AND THEN PRETTY MUCH
WITHOUT ITS NOTICING, THE P.C.
MARKET BEGAN TO GO AWAY.
AND NOW KIND OF THE CENTER OF
ENERGY IN THE TECHNOLOGY
BUSINESS HAS TO DO WITH MOBILE
DEVICES LIKE PHONES AND TABLET
WHICH IS MICROSOFT IS REALLY
TRYING TO CATCH UP THERE, THEY
JUST BOUGHT NOKIA BUT IT'S --
THEY FACE THE SAME KIND OF
PROBLEM THAT BLACKBERRY HAS TRYT
AHEAD IN THE NEW MARKET THAT'S
DOMINATED BY OTHER PLAYERS.
>> Brown: A HAD MANJOO AT THE
"WALL STREET JOURNAL," THANKS SO
MUCH.
>> Ifill: FINALLY TONIGHT,
SEPARATING THE HISTORICAL JESUS
FROM THE THEOLOGICAL ONE.
RAY SUAREZ HAS OUR BOOK
CONVERSATION.
>> THANKS.
>> Suarez: WAS HE A PROPH,ET THE
SON OF GOD OR A REVOLUTIONARY
INTENT ON OVERTHROWING ISRAEL'S
ROMAN RULERS?
THESE ARE THE QUESTIONS AT THE
HARD OF THE NEW BOOK "ZEALOT.
THE LIFE AND TIMES OF JESUS OF
NAZARETH" BY RELIGION SCHOLAR
AND WRITER REZA ASLAN.
REZA, I'M GLAD THE WHOLE KERR
CAN YOU FEEL OVER WHETHER A
MUSLIM COULD OR SHOULD WRITE
THIS BOOK IS OVER BECAUSE THE
MORE INTERESTING QUESTION IS WHY
YOU WOULD WRITE IT, WHAT
ATTRACTED YOU TO THE SUBJECT IN
THE FIRST PLACE.
>> I HAVE BEEN INTERESTED IN
JESUS FOR A VERY LONG TIME, BOTH
AS A WORSHIPER-- WHEN I WAS 15
YEARS OLD I CONVERTED TO
EVANGELICAL CHRISTIANITY-- AND
AS A SCHOLAR.
IN UNDERGRAD I WAS FIRST
INTRODUCED TO THE HISTORICAL
JESUS AND I THINK HAVING THAT
PERSPECTIVE OF COMING AT HIM
FROM BOTH OF THOSE VIEW POINTS,D
ONE UNBURDENED BY DOGMA AND
DOCTRINE PROVIDED ME WITH BOTH A
DEEP SENSE OF RESPECT AND
CHRISTIANITY IN A WAY THAT
BILLIONS OF PEOPLE AROUND THE
WORLD UNDERSTAND JESUS.
BUT AT THE SAME TIME GAVE ME THE
IMPETUS TO TRY TO DIG THROUGH AS
MUCH AS POSSIBLE ALL THAT LAYER
OF INTERPRETATION TO GET TO WHO
THE MAN HIMSELF WAS IF FOR NO
OTHER REASON TO JUST KNOW HIM
BETTER.
>> Suarez: WELL, YOU CAME AS BOY
FROM REVOLUTIONARY IRAN AND YOU
WRITE "JESUS, ON THE OTHER HAND,
WAS AMERICA.
HE WAS THE CENTRAL FIGURE
AMERICA'S NATIONAL DRAMA,
ACCEPTING HIM INTO MY HEART WAS
AS CLOSE AS I COULD GET TO
FEELING TRULY AMERICAN."
NOW, IF YOU GROW UP IN THIS
CULTURE, IF YOU'RE BORN INTO
THIS CULTURE, IT MAY BE LIKE
TRYING TO DESCRIBE WATER TO A
FISH.
BUT THE IDEA THAT JESUS IS SO
SUFFICIENT FUSED INTO THE
CULTURE MAY NOT EVEN BE THAT
APPARENT TO A LOT OF PEOPLE.
>> I THINK YOU'RE RIGHT.
I THINK FOR A LOT OF PEOPLE,
FRANKLY, THE CROSS AND THE FLAG
BLEND INTO A SINGLE ICON.
BUT AS AN IRANIAN COMING INTO
THE UNITED STATES IN THE EARLY
1980s WHEN ANTI-IRANIAN AND
ANTI-MUSLIM SENTIMENT WERE AT
VERY HIGH LEVELS IT WAS
IMPORTANT FOR ME TO DISTANCE
MYSELF FROM MY CULTURE AND MY
RELIGION AS MUCH AS POSSIBLE.
AND I DO NOT WANT TO GIVE THE
IMPRESSION THAT THIS WAS SOME
CONVERSION OF CONVENIENCE.
I BURNED WITH THE FIRE OF GOD.
I WENT TO SCHOOL TO STUDY THE
NEW TESTMENT FROM A POSITION OF
BELIEF.
AND ALTHOUGH THAT POSITION
EVENTUALLY DISINTEGRATED, I HAVE
MADE THE STUDY OF JESUS AND,
FRANKLY, HAVE MOLDED MYSELF BY
THE EXAMPLE THAT HE PROVIDED
2000 YEARS AGO, I'VE MADE THAT
THE PURPOSE OF MY CAREER.
>> Suarez: THE BOOK HAS GROW YOU
DRAWING CONCLUSIONS FROM A LOT
OF THE SCHOLARSHIP WORK ON THE
HISTORICAL JESUS.
IS THIS REALLY A COME PEND
SGLUPL A KIND OF GUIDED TOUR?
A MAP TO WHAT THE BEST THINKERS
HAVE BEEN SAYING ABOUT THE
CENTRAL FIGURE IN CHRISTIANITY?
>> I THINK THAT'S AN EXCELLENT
WAY OF DESCRIBING IT.
TO BE PERFECTLY HONEST, AFTER
200 YEARS OF THE QUEST FOR THE
HISTORICAL JESUS THERE ISN'T ALL
THAT MUCH NEW TO SAY ANY LONGER.
AND WHILE THERE ARE SOME
ARGUMENTS IN THE BOOK THAT ARE
SOMEWHAT INNOVATIVE, SOMEWHAT
FRESH, THE FACT OF THE MATTER IS
THAT THE BOOK IS REALLY A
DYSNATION OF A CENTURY IF NOT
MORE OF ACADEMIC WORK ON THE
HISTORICAL JESUS BUT IT'S PUT
INTO AN APPEALING ACCESSIBLE
FORM THAT WOULD INVITE THE LAY
AUDIENCE, THE GENERAL READER, TO
TAKE PART IN A DEBATE THAT'S
BEEN GOING NONACADEMIA FOR A
VERY LONG TIME.
>> Suarez: "THE LIFE AND TIMES
OF JESUS OF NAZARETH."
I THINK WE PUT SO MUCH EMPHASIS
ON THE LIFE THAT WE FORGET ABOUT
THE TIMES AND ONE OF THE BEST
THINGS THE BOOK DOES IS TAKE US
TO FIRST CENTURY PALESTINE, TAKE
US TO THE EASTERN MEDITERRANEAN
OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE AND IT'S
IMPORTANT TO UNDERSTAND THE SOIL
THAT THIS NEW RELIGION GROWS OUT
OF
>> THIS PERIOD WE'RE TALK ABOUT
WAS PROBABLY THE MOST TUMULTUOUS
ERA OF THE HOLY LAND, WHICH IS
OBVIOUSLY SAYING A LOT.
YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT A BLOODY,
BRUTAL ROMAN OCCUPATION THAT
CONTROLLED EVERY ASPECT OF THE
LIFE OF THE JEWS.
YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT A
CONTINUOUS SUCCESSION OF
INSURRECTIONS AND REBELLIONS BY
THE JEWS AGAINST THE ROMANS,
MANY OF WHICH WERE BRUTALLY
CRUSHED BY THE EMPIRE AND A
SENSE OF APOCALYPTIC EXPECTATION
THAT ANIMATED THE JEWS, IT WAS
LIKE A VIRUS GOING THROUGH THE
LAND.
EVERYONE EXPECTED SOMETHING
DRAMATIC TO HAPPEN AND THERE
WERE A SERIES OF MESSIANIC
ASPIRE RANTS, ONE AFTER ANOTHER
CLAIMING TO BE THE MESSIAH,
CLAIMING TO COME TO RELEASE THE
JEWS FROM THE BONDAGE OF THE
REMAN OCCUPATION AND JESUS FITS
VERY MUCH IN THE CENTER OF THAT
MOVEMENT.
THERE'S NO MORE IMPORTANT FACTOR
IN UNDERSTANDING WHO JESUS WAS
THAN THIS.
HE WAS A JEW.
NOW, OBVIOUSLY, EVERYONE KNOWS
THAT JESUS WAS A JEW AND NO ONE
DENIES THAT HE WAS A JEW, BUT
FEW PEOPLE ACTUALLY STOP AND
THINK ABOUT THE CONSEQUENCES OF
THAT FACT.
THE CONSEQUENCES ARE THAT
EVERYTHING THAT JESUS SAID OR
DID HE SAID OR DID AS A JEW.
IT MEANS HIS AUDIENCE WERE ALL
JEWS.
IT MEANS THE ONLY GOD HE KNEW
WAS THE GOD OF THE HEBREW BIBLE,
THE OLD TESTAMENT.
THE ONLY SCRIPTURES HE KNEW WERE
THE HEBREW SCRIPTURE.
THE ONLY RELIGION HE HAD ANY
REAL EXPERIENCE OF WAS SECOND
TEMPLE JEW DAYISM.
SO WHAT THAT MEANS IS THAT WE
HAVE TO UNDERSTAND AND PLACE
JESUS'S WORDS AND ACTIONS FIRMLY
AND INEXTRICABLY I WOULD SAY
WITHIN THE JEWISH CONTEXT OF THE
TIME.
IF HE SAID "I AM THE MESSIAH" HE
MEANT WHAT EVERY JEW MEANT.
IF HE TALKED ABOUT THE KINGDOM
OF GOD HE MEANT WHAT EVERY JEW
MEANT WHEN THEY HEARD THE
KINGDOM OF GOD.
AND.
>> Suarez: AND THE TUMULT OF
THOSE TIMES IS REALLY THE
MILIEU, THE ATMOSPHERE THAT ARE
A NEW RELIGION GROWS OUT OF.
IT CAN'T BE PULLED OUT OF ITS
CONTEXT, CAN IT?
>> WHETHER YOU BELIEVE THAT
JESUS IS GOD OR NOT, THE SON OF
GOD OR NOT, THE MESSIAH OR NOT,
THAT YOU BELIEVE HE WAS STILL A
HUMAN BEING AND IF HE WAS A
HUMAN BEING REGARDLESS OF
WHATEVER ELSE HE WAS HE WAS A
PRODUCT OF HIS TIME AND WHEN YOU
WANT TO KNOW WHO HE WAS AS A
WORSHIPER OR AS SIMPLY A PERSON
OF INTEREST YOU MUST KNOW THE
WORLD IN WHICH HE LIVED.
>> Suarez: THE BOOK IS "ZEALOT,
THE LIFE AND TIMES OF JESUS OF
AS IN WRATH."
WE HAVE TO CONTINUE THIS
CONVERSATION.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
THE PRESIDENT OF KENYA
PROCLAIMED VICTORY IN A BLOODY,
FOUR-DAY SIEGE AT A NAIROBI
SHOPPING MALL.
THE ISLAMIST ATTACKERS DISPUTED
HIS CLAIMS.
AND THE U.N. GENERAL ASSEMBLY
OPENED, WITH PRESIDENT OBAMA
URGING DIPLOMATIC ACTION ON
SYRIA'S CHEMICAL WEAPONS AND
IRAN'S NUCLEAR PROGRAM.
>> Ifill: ONLINE, LANDING THE
PERFECT JOB MEANS BEING A SMART
JOB CANDIDATE.
ON "ASK THE HEADHUNTER" TODAY,
THREE WAYS YOU CAN BE A SHREWD
APPLICANT.
READ WHAT THEY ARE ON OUR MAKING
SENSE PAGE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
LATER THIS EVENING ON MOST PBS
STATIONS CHARLIE ROSE TALKS
ABOUT CLIMATE CHANGE WITH FORMER
PRESIDENT CLINTON AND FORMER
VICE PRESIDENT GORE.
AND THE NEWSHOUR ON WEDNESDAY,
THE PRICE OF PREMIUMS ON THE NEW
HEALTH INSURANCE EXCHANGES PLUS
AN INTERVIEW WITH THE C.E.O. OF
COMCAST, THE
PLUS, AN INTERVIEW WITH THE
C.E.O. OF COMCAST ON THE FUTURE
OF TV.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
ON BEHALF OF ALL OF US AT THE
PBS NEWSHOUR,HANK T YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.